I'm attorney I graduated from the
University of 1964 in fact some lawyers
since then and I'm a member of the bar
of state of New York and of the District
of Columbia I specialized in the 1970s
in the military law practice military
law in Asia Europe and they became the
editor chief of the military war
reporter in Washington for a number of
years and in the 70s and 80s I was a
staff counsel of the center of the
Constitutional Rights in New York City I
also was a professor at John Jay College
of Criminal Justice this is a university
with your your eye courses on propaganda
and yes I have since 1977 or 78 in
addition to being the practicing lawyer
I've also in journalist and a publisher
and writer specializing in intelligence
related matters and particularly their
relationship to the media for more than
20 years I've been the co publisher of a
magazine called the covert action
quarterly which particularly deals with
reporting on intelligence agencies
primarily US agencies but also armed I
published magazine for the refused call
lives of our times which specifically
was a magazine about propaganda and
disinformation and I've been the
managing director of the Institute for
media and houses for a number of years I
also for about 20 years now I think I
was one
the principal's in the publishing
company called Sherman Square press that
published books and pamphlets relating
to intelligence and media dozens of
articles on particularly online media
and intelligence seven or eight books on
the subject contributed sections to a
number of other books and had many of
our artists of course have been appeared
in my own our own publications but also
had artists teetering around including
New York Times Washington Post and major
media those appear a lot on the radio
and television as an expert on on
intelligence and commedia slowing down a
bit now as I'm getting older I used to
do a lot of speaking in universities and
colleges around the country and debating
government officials and people
connecting the organizations that
supported the CIA media for distant
Romanian and Canada
yes I have I've testified as an expert
in that field in both state and federal
courts in this country I've testified in
our courts I testified before the United
Nations on that subject most before you
has come
yes that's that's my CD diaper dirty
probably shops TV and an expert witness
the issues
yes I have a summary of the subject the
extent to which this type of activity by
government still think putters yes I can
teach in history but it should be noted
that that governments around the world
have secretly use the media purposes for
many hundreds of years probably
thousands but certainly the 16th of the
17th century use fight governments a
series of the media for our purposes
though the particularly relating to the
u.s. the most significant of the first
major deliberate program in this country
was during World War when President
Wilson said an organization called the
committee for Public Information under a
public relations executive Manning
George creel the purpose of this
committee was to propagandize the war
effort against the Germany this was
created immediately after the u.s.
entered World War one 1917 and in
propagandizing the war effort more news
it was the policy of this committee to
have no compunctions about falsifying
the news whenever is felt that that was
necessary to do to help the war effort
here is an example the type of
falsification of the news that you're
talking about yes republic information
very long too
release documents supposedly genuine
documents to the press in order to
substantiate whatever particular
position the most the government might
be taken at the time one of the most
famous that happened early that's its
creation in 1917 was a disinformation
campaign to suggest that the Russian
revolutionaries Lenin in particular and
Trotsky were actually German agents
being paid by the Kaiser the government
cripples committee made up the story
they made up created funny documents
that pass the mobile to friends in the
major newspapers and almost immediately
this was front-page news around the
United States and the world yes this is
the rest of the sections from an article
where that headline appeared but that
was it on the front page of the New York
Times of 1917 and later it transpired
that the documents were forgeries that
have been created by mr. creel
and of course this is obvious by the
current course of history the Russian
revolutionaries were hardly friends mr.
pizer
it's much less employees and you
continue with there's nothing yes after
one the u.s. continued to be the or
actually became the world's leader in
control of information
Britain had been more preeminent over
that at the end of the world us was
really both in control of overall
communication media and disinformation
was used by the government during the
interwar years
is particularly used in the red scares
of the 1920s and the creation of this
information suggests in various
government work communist but it wasn't
a major aspect of government policy
until the advent of World War two and
that was planning deliberate
disinformation or a structure for or
humidity deliberate disinformation
became very very important history to
bring about a certain well at the very
beginning of World War two that were
really two schools of thought
competing both of which had government
agencies one that was set up was called
the office of War Information which was
a civilian organizational or closely
with the with the War Department as it
was then called and it was headed by a
man named Elmer Davis who's very famous
reporter journalist his cause being was
that the agency should tell the American
people exactly what was happening to
tell them the truth if he lost the
battle somewhere in the Pacific we
should tell the people we lost out of
that little one about what we tell me
why but he believed that in the long run
we would do best by reporting the truth
but at the same time another key
organization of developers who was the
Office of Strategic Services the OSS
which was headed by military men in the
Donovan who was known as Wild Bill
Donovan who believed the same that
George creel had had his philosophy from
World War one which was that you should
lie to the people whenever it's
necessary
you think lying will help maintain
morale and win the war
this struggle was was taking place of
course in the context World War two and
Donovan won both President Roosevelt and
afterward with President Truman his
philosophy that that disinformation was
a powerful a valuable teppan for a
country to have and that the
disadvantages of lying to the American
people were outweighed by the advantages
of being able to manipulate the media so
when the war was over also more
information was dissolved the OSS was
transformed into the CIA and the CIA was
now was this thing increased I'm mindin
World War two is over and now the CIA
set up with this information as a major
part of its work and in fact it's mostly
supports later pointed out the largest
single part of the CIA's operations the
within the government at least the
acceptability of linemen to the public
became very widespread and acceptable
even in time the piece there had been
people who felt well it's one thing when
you're at war but even in time and peace
that he came acceptable and it spread
from other agencies including the FBI
which also began to engage in media
manipulation in a very very large way so
in addition to being a wartime strategy
perspective the security of the nation
that also in times of war this tightly
spotted the use in peacetime
exactly that was the major difference
certain things were much more acceptable
or expected over the course of history
in time of war and were generally
supposed to stop when the wall is over
out there were people who argued in the
late forties that the Cold War was was a
war it was like hot war
that was the war that was on and that
was why we had to do this but what
really happened is there were not
battles being waged between soldiers
because it's not a hopper going on
anywhere and yet the the infrastructure
that is set up to spread this
information to be able to lie became
institutionalized and became operating
at the grade level this child how is it
that some individuals like yourself have
become more aware of these kinds of
practices in Nam
well it's mostly because by coincidence
there were a number of factors that came
together mostly in the 1970s leading to
major congressional investigations of
these activities we some newspapers to
fund serious investigative reports and
in Midland late seventies there were
series or series of congressional
reports on intelligence activities
section of which was devoted to new
media activities and then there were
major expose days in New York Times and
The Washington Post it was sort of a
warning mentality I guess that allowed
this to happen there was a window of a
few years when exposing government
misconduct particularly past government
misconduct as far as the government and
certainly over the better but at least
there was a window of opportunity that
this was acceptable even within the
mainstream establishment press was not
frowned upon as much as it might have
been at other times before and since
before we the witness some specific
instances work why is it so much what is
it so successful well firstly the target
of propaganda of this information the
most do so speed is what we're talking
about is the American public in general
and sometimes the publicans go overseas
this information is almost always by
definition about things that the average
person has no separate personal
knowledge of otherwise it could really
work I mean you can't fool the people
you're talking about you can fool with
other people who don't know that you're
not trying to fool the people we're
talking about the simplest example is
yet not war when there was a massive
bombing campaign in the US was bombing
Cambodia
President Nixon and Secretary of State
Kissinger repeatedly made other
statements that we are not dropping
bombs in Cambodia will the Cambodians
who looked out and saw the bombs fall in
their backyard the American people by
Amar's accepted these papers as proof
and in fact that was a disinformation
campaign later admit you're really we're
talking about things that the public has
no separate knowledge of and it's also
reinforced by the fact that the
Americans generally tend to believe what
their government tells them to believe
that government officials and all levels
generally tell the truth and that if you
have that that absence of skepticism is
a major plus whether this information is
and it's very very unusual around the
world other than the United States and
most other countries particularly in
Europe it's much more the opposite
people tend on average very skeptical of
their companies use this treatment
average Italian on the street will say
it's probably a lot until you can prove
to me otherwise it's not like because
the others lie that's what they you know
they sort of SPECT them that we're some
Russians gone expect that
yeah American can hear something
use on television and assumes that what
they're hearing is the truth unless
they're Shawn compromised they assume
that almost nothing is ever conspiracy
in here it's very much a novice anything
happens they tend to think it's a
conspiracy unless you show that there
wasn't I mean after all conspiracy just
means you know more than one person
being involved in sobbing I don't stop
to think about it almost everything
insignificant it happens anywhere
involves more than one person get here
there is not a myth really but there's
just an underlying assumption for most
things are not conspiracies when you
have that it enables a government which
has a propaganda program as a
disinformation program to be relatively
successful in in having it's
misinformation acceptance the other
reason why it might works
even though as we as we know they're
there somewhere there are people who
know it's not true somewhere they know
you're lying about something but another
reason it works is that this information
is very very effective over time the
longer that you where you are control
the spin on the story the more that spin
becomes accepted as the absolute truth
and this company the government has a
great deal of how our intervals over
that spin why well this is an area where
I had to consult with other experts
because it turns out really to be a
neurological function explained to me by
a Besser at Harvard Medical School and
it has to do with way the human brain
remembers things the way we learn things
when we create patterns and associations
that reinforced
well it's sort of like channels in the
brain that when certain things trigger
certain collateral
thoughts and when you associate one
thing with another over time just the
mention of the one brings the
association of the other what this
sometimes mean is that even when
something is greater suppose is alive if
it was accepted as the truth for a long
time I'm sure of it as a lie is not
believed it's a 20 or not the best
example
you know and money in my field is one
that John stopped well he was a CIA
officer and goal
they were basically isolation was
basically common and when the cuban
troops were sent in to help what was
quite the south africans during mid 70s
the CIA's task was to try to discredit
the cubans that you would ever good to
make people around the world and he was
a terrible thing that the Cubans were
helping let's do something terrible
thing that you can do and another guy's
see why don't you say they were raping a
problem and having a great thing that's
right the other guy says torture and
they called in their media certainly
start sitting there at their desk of the
CIA office you start typing out these
people spoke about how human soldiers
raped a bunch of animals women in some
operation and then they great story
number two which is that the villagers
got in the sense and decided they didn't
want to keep them safe want him to find
the souls to get interested in his story
number three that just captured the
Cubans they were trying and by a jury of
the women victims and they were executed
with their own weapons and they made a
series about 12 newspaper stories in a
row and with one phone call in one visit
it went out of the wire services it went
to Europe went in the United States and
around the world and for about a
six-month period there are all these
stories about horrible human rapes in
Angola
the average person years and go human
ethic great other women they hear great
from women they'll think Angola Cubans
here in Goa
so that becomes later because those
intelligence because all this activity
is useless unless there's a yes we can
be we have a lot of information about
the CI a certain amount about military
intelligence and the reason for this is
because there were those congressional
investigations that I mentioned before
there have been reports published
particularly from the Church Committee
in the late seventies where they
published volume antibodies describing
these and media operations by the CIA
and other agencies they the exact
amounts of money that were meeting staff
work were not divulged by those initial
reports because that was considered to
be classified the intelligence budgets
are always classified except at the same
time
everything you read something newspaper
where they say classified budget which
is approximately 25 million dollars so
on our sponsor so what we've learned
from these reports is that the first
thing was that about how much would that
be
we're talking about hundreds of millions
of dollars a year just that I mean the
intelligence budget now everything
together is according to these all these
reports that say a secret but is about
25 to 30 billion dollars a year now a
lot of that is high-tech stuff has
nothing to do with what I'm talking
about satellites and so on but the stuff
that goes to the CIA is several billion
and when you factor out overhead and
things like that you're kind of
operational about most of the estimates
suggest that that hundreds of billions
hundreds of millions of dollars most of
a billion dollars are being spent every
year by the United States massive group
again now yeah we have fairly good view
this one CIA because it at least has
been admitted in the past they did do
this stuff they admit they do it now
something they said within the United
States are they they admit that that's
part of what they do
yeah yeah I is much harder to get these
because they don't generally to
conducting media
and less until something gets exposed
and they have to admit that particular
operation they deny to an extent where
it's really hard to try and estimate how
much money is being used by the military
intelligence agency but it's sort of
clear that that hundreds of millions of
dollars are being spent by various
aspects of the government on
deliberately creating and spreading lies
when we get into this specific part of
the campaign hey give us some idea of
the influence the CIA and the FBI had
over the media yes again this is
something that very specific figures
came out in the seventies and eighties
and we don't know the precise figures
today we have no reason to think that
that they are significantly less than
what came out but when the church he
made reported on CIA media operations
for example beyond friends in the press
beyond having people who were just
generally similar lines it turned out
that they had thousands of journalists
didn't ever employ not not really
friendly not merely agents not maybe
someone who could pass a story to the
people who might appear to the outside
world to be a reporter for CBS was in
fact the CIA employee gave salary in CIA
and that was repeated thousands of times
all around the world they also owned
outright the CIA about at that time
about 250 or more media organizations
that's wire services newspapers
magazines radio TV stations all around
the world I think only
the actual shareholder of the Company
turned out to be some CIA frauds did not
need very many of these organizations
because those that got many wasn't had
to close down immediately but if it was
learned that even things like the wrong
daily American major in most people
realize the intelligence media
organization is fairly incredible TV
giving sort brag about when you read the
posts about the CIA
one of the heroes was the first man in
charge of media operations a man named
Frank Wisner and they referred to his
organization as the Mighty Wurlitzer and
this was image of this guy sitting at
one of the giant Hornets you know were
17 B or C of playing this was sort of
like the Phantom of the Opera back in
that scene and there was the guy running
the CIA media operations all around the
world and he really lost because in
every single city of any size on earth
he has some employee who's supposedly
clerk for those people or magazine or a
radio station or viruses and they could
get stories anywhere actually the
knowledge was posted by former CIA also
native named James Botox who was not in
the propaganda vision he was in finance
but he was so amazing oral aural about
this he was in the station from Japan
one time there was a big debate raging
there but a nuclear-powered ships should
be allowed to dock in Japanese ports was
a very always been a touchy issue that
be since Hiroshima has been very touchy
issue of Japan even peaceful uses of
nuclear power and the u.s. line was to
promote
some of us had homework done so they
wanted to Japanese papers to inter
target eyes in favor of this debate was
going on Jim said he saw this guy that
everybody just sit down and type this is
a CIA officer employed in the u.s. gotta
type in editorial and then wave goodbye
everybody left the office the next
morning that appeared that's the
editorial the leader of the largest
newspaper in Japan they didn't go to a
friendly publisher said she was sort of
like maybe do something a little bit
favor of the decision they wrote it
further they handed it to the guide the
next day in Japanese it appears in the
paper
another thing showing the influence here
in this country was during the Vietnam
War I know some people my age will
remember there was a Life magazine that
had a cover picture of a North
Vietnamese stamp that showed the
Vietnamese shooting down American plans
and showed us planes with mr. Marquis in
burst of flames and crashing and US
pilots be killed
Nosa pretty bizarre and gruesome set of
postage stamps and it was a whole story
in there basically trying to give the
line that yet nummies glorifying the
killing of Americans and they thought
was so great to to kill Americans that
they were putting it on their postage
stamps the only thing that was as if
these were not North Vietnamese stamps
there was CIA forgeries
had never been real stamps and the CIA
was able to have them appear on the
cover of Life magazine as if they were
the real thing
that level of influence is something
that many people don't realize that you
might have when you read the
Congressional reports page an opinion at
the base it's absolutely stunningly now
given the urgency and given that they
had hundreds of those bottles up there
that man they could get anything
Peter almost any way less documentation
again because the official musicians do
this not to talk about it but did come
out in the congressional reports
primarily is that a major FBI division
is called the cry morning division was
theoretically supposed to keep track of
how federal crimes were being reported
why that was their business I don't know
but that's what the superiors was but in
fact there's a whole division set up to
keep track of journalists and reporters
and magazines and newspapers to decide
to be counted on to write stories that
the FBI wanted rittany who would slant
stories the way they wanted the the
question of whether these particular
reporters were actually FBI employees
like like so many will CIA employees is
unclear that's never been admitted by
the government the FBI actually keeps
all employees and haven't hit a job as a
correspondent newspaper that's where has
to be noted CIA to that many places
there's no reason to think they couldn't
have done it
other than in fact that it hasn't yet
been in expose but in any event there
were significant pressures available to
the FBI to use their friends and the
church committee report gives those many
many examples are copies of memos Hoover
on down where the attachments that get
this information to our friends at the
Coakley News Service
get this information to indicate their
doors turn now to the use of the media
and in this type of campaign activity
against Martin Luther King jr. but
before you do that we can tell the part
of the jury one of the sources of the
amount of additional deception
preparation contemplation of appearing
here really two main sources in addition
to reports about the general operations
or misconduct they have his specific
studies mentioned in this case but that
meant specifics those related to Martin
Luther King's new America both with
respect to the attacks long him while he
was along and also the specific reports
with respect his murder there was an
entire bomb being published from under
the Senate investigations yeah I needed
campaign against dr. King and there was
a House committee that published the
volume investigated assassination and
these of course are the sources because
they have a great deal of government
documentation in which no private
journalists could get their hands on
things in there that even the best
research would be able to obtain but
that impression committee set subpoena
panels and were able to amass thousands
of documents most of which were
photocopied and attached to their
reports
well I was reviewed many books that have
been written on the subject hundreds of
articles briefcases clippings that were
major stories written about dr. King
particularly in the last few years life
and then the most of the coverage in the
first few years of the James Earl Ray
case before and after his Tessa convert
is named imagine and throughout the 60s
and early 70s that was quite a bit of
coverage those clippings that I've been
able to find that review some of the
sporadic coverage in the nineties have
also been able to assemble and review
elope the level of that conferences
shows that throughout its history I has
made relations with the media key area
not so much infiltrating employees as
the CIA did but cultivating very very
deep connections throughout the American
means that they had the entire division
of that time avoiding division was
dealing solely with developing friendly
journalists developing the ways in which
you could get where she wanted to appear
in the papers to be there but she didn't
want not to be there on a level that was
nobody realized until these these
reports came out the the primary
motivation was keeping track of
virtually every chat most of America
that wrote anything to that to do with
the FBI
and whether everything is classified as
friendly or unfriendly
of course somewhat complicated is
generally met DJ or Hoover like what
they wrote are not playing what they
wrote happy note and you know nobody
else you know mattered was alive but he
kept charts every significant journalist
has to work to come out you see that and
its immediate subordinates get this
information to punt returners yet this
to our friend that US News and over get
this to some friend of her close in
Memphis and you see whether that's what
stuff interesting we go this is
permanently never mattered whether the
information was true or false that was
not what it was about you find FBI
planting information that's true you
find the Atlantic Division that's false
the critical thing was that they had the
friend that media place that Brent was
gonna run what they wanted without the
mister could you tell us what the Church
Committee said about reports and explain
to be called tell Provost was
counterintelligence program and that was
the major FBI program to counter what it
conceived to be threats to American
democracy and it was apparently
considered threats he had visions trying
to operate against communists and
socialists against they referred to us
as black nationalist refers eight groups
there's seven sections just on Asian
Islam they have seven section
the civil rights movement they had a
hybrid program I'm coming Phil which was
to deal with the possibility communists
were infiltrating not anonymous there
one section trying to disrupt groups
they felt the communist influence or
dangerous and another one trying to
infiltrate groups basically a
counterintelligence program was really a
misnomer because counterintelligence
normally once you're trying to hide
things out counterintelligence officers
in wartime in espionage are just
supposed to be finding out information
that these were active committees not
passive at what counterintelligence
programs world were over attempts
sometimes very very complicated
operations disrupt organizations which
they felt for the threat regardless of
whether these organizations were
committing any crimes the irony of this
is that the FBI theoretically was
supposed to limit itself to
investigating crimes and federal crimes
at that it basically took the position
that no thinking bad boss was a primer
didn't like the current government of
that day that was a crime and it was the
site of the group should be disrupted
and Montel probably sit down to figure
out how to disrupt a party well he was
just about the top of the list of terms
who prefer for reasons that are still
unclear many books have been written
about you Erica uber and I don't think
anything quite understands what bathing
tip he needed he made no bones about it
he said he sent letters using who's
referring to him as the garbage
referring to have a slide he when Martin
Luther King was was awarded the Nobel
Peace Prize about this long diatribe
about how that supposed to make this
thing you never his life back started
trying this one and without these prices
to program but he and the SCLC as the
best organization find themselves at
least [ __ ] yeah yeah I from early on
he certainly must be investing early
sixties that it really intensified but
it was much more public dr. Kington
almost any other individual he would be
public about communists or terrorists or
whatever but Martin Luther King's
specifically used is the most horrendous
languages going once went on only time
he ever gave a press interview called a
twelvemonth beginning of the most
notorious liar in history in the United
States he was saying that because King
had had the temerity to say that FBI
agents in South Warren be terribly
helpful to two blacks who having
problems with racism
he did an example of those media
operations sure the significant ones
world war two to suggest that some
person Leadership Conference was was a
communist infiltrated communist
dominated they the I had prepared
dossiers on King everybody was working
with them and that two people who were
close to dr. King had some time in the
past at some affiliations with
communists you should understand because
this key now they they had no evidence
whatsoever that
these two people was at that time
economists or that either these two
people was trying to impose some kind of
line on dr. Keith but they decided to
say that anyway
and they prepared dossiers on these two
long as that one was a weight lawyers
and 11 suit those of black owners of
pain injector Dell and what they is they
the same weight get us a friend of this
paper gets a friendly are they snore
complaints and stories and I think the
second page we they were attempting to
discredit dr. King and the normalization
is not they were not trying to just get
rid of Dell because that would matter of
the conversation but they spread this
miss continued equipment from Atlanta
Constitution but it says if that makes
reference to prior of the most of the
sailors both Democratic performance time
speaking of the story which was
essentially based on the FBI spreading
just this is information well actually
this is a because demonstrate some of
the techniques they use the most
significant ones being is being fuzzy
whenever you can it has in there if it
taught it to diverse to a veil that says
has been identified as a member of the
National Committee of the conscious
party and that this this is the sort of
the passive attempts
or saying what what what you know when
you say someone has been either you
don't say who identified whether this
type of interpretation I mean you know
one person anywhere could say something
about anybody then you say he has been
identified as that's very what
particularly because that's in the
present tense it says has been
identified as a member of the counts
party we know now that at the time when
the FBI gave this information sheets
burned they knew that was untruth
because they do whatever might have been
ten years before they knew at that time
that he was not and yet instances where
we were actually testified before
Congress and allowed the testimony of
Republic he the line was that the black
movement that civil rights movement was
being exploited by communists and this
particular thing is example against time
many of these are based on the materials
prospectus almost that were prepared to
give it to their dear friends in these
these portals and in this case it's even
more significant because this was part
of a campaign of so organized that
Hoover
to escalation was 6864 I mentioned
before the new birth press conference
authorities liar country was shocking
the accessible public meeting with new
journalists and appears all over the
country all conference was reprinted in
US News World Report with a tape in fact
the tables originally use and this is
one of things that the house to be found
the most outrageous in an attempt to try
and run it dr. King to commit suicide
shortly before he went together two
Nobel Prize the take was mailed to him
that are basically saying if you don't
kill yourself we're going to make this
public
nothing ever happening because he was
getting sloshed man let this thing will
somebody offers me a tape oh by the
speeches and they put them to the back
room when they did get a look at it
until about nine months later long happy
back and then they slowly get the dope
trying to get it suicide a feminine ten
years later
focused on a lot yes I think that was
very very specific things one speech
that King David in April of 1967 at
Riverside Church in New York City
he came out against the war in Vietnam
and remember back to that period of time
this was a fundamental is being ripping
every aspect of this country the pros
and cons of the augmenting in Vietnam
and when dr. King cannot against the
u.s. involvement here this was
immediately accepted by Jay Hoover as
truth that he was a communist fruit a
terrible person but unifying the forces
on the intelligence force of the United
States so it's not just an FBI matter
and he who spread the military
intelligence
yeah absolutely once dr. King made that
statement this the CIA in particular
considered him and his movement fair
game even to the extent that their
operations were limited to Harner policy
the again because of the aggression
investigations I know that the CIA which
people thought did not operate
domestically within the US had a huge
genetic program called Operation chaos
which was designed to counter opposition
the Vietnam War and even though they
later admitted it was illegal at issue
books of the Congressional reports about
all the operation chaos activity in the
United States and what they call black
nationalists was a specific target of
that that campaign this continuum to
1968 his activity through the scientific
work right here in Memphis and then fine
poor people trading at market absolutely
this campaign against kids activities up
to the very last day of his life in
particular on the is involvement with
the strike in Memphis the FBI decided at
that point to try to spread stories that
he was encouraging violence one of the
the key articles was in the Christian
Science Monitor the end of March of 68
and again gives all of the themes that
the FBI want want planted particularly
about violence if the arleigh uses
bizarre language birth for something
about a small strike in a medium-sized
town that was something but was not not
having first shaking event this was the
sanitation workers strike and this is
the first people has potentially
cataclysmic racial confrontation that's
not quite World War 3 but
that language and the stories that begin
here this is just people with our
contain was guilt work or suggesting
that he was closely allied with violent
forces a reporter go to Memphis and nail
dr. King those are the words oh
absolutely
Hoover was your secret memos in the
report you know what we don't know and
haven't seen was sending people out
everywhere to talk to all their friendly
media context yet King and they usually
do it for packets of information much
the polls to be used as part of the of
the campaign they also interesting
tactics you see that these stories a lot
of fussing having the story that's on
the screen for example has a sensitive
near the end racism many blacks have
mixed feelings about dr. King this is a
it was week many planet many everybody
have mixed feelings about anything if
you mind do what you say who has what
fields but the whole thing was to try to
say he's he's violence he's hanging
around the violent people and basically
that the blacks in his not be should
supportive lips this media
disinformation campaign what was it like
after dr. King was him well one thing
the the attempts to discredit dr. King
to the FBI attempts did not stop after
his death they continued to send
their dossiers of reports and pointing
information to try and display his
memory in the beginning one of course
the assassin had not yet been go out
rather no one had to get charged the
assassination had to give the impression
that the FBI was doing a great job I
didn't want to be criticisms that was
unavoidable this one who were it already
publicly attacked dr. King in all these
magazines and then it's a problem facing
the United States who saw it became a
problem for the FBI then to try and
convince of America that they were doing
everything in their power to apprehend
his killer and to do that they had to
pull out all the stops and get all the
pressure columnist writing story story
that they're doing everything they could
and also some time when they try and
answer the stories that they were
convinced that James Earl Ray was the
bomb assess the start of plates do any
other interest people read reveals later
this was the story that came out in 1975
it's actually an interesting example
earth yeah Anderson of criticizing a
group of people of moving fails to
mention he was one time something to
happen instead of offering when columns
decided here though near the slate but
he was reporting at this time about how
the FBI had waves we campaign against he
how he knew about a time he knew about
all these girls accusations that were
being being handed out it's all I mean
the stories let me interesting because
why didn't he say it at the time as one
person thought but at least at least he
rest of something that he also was able
to explain that a number of the rumors
about the King had been proven to be not
true what he didn't know at the time
because the Congressional report came
out over Lake that he didn't know is
that even the FBI at the time they were
spreading the scores without he was
alive maybe with the story his name yes
but really that was pretty bizarre
because you can understand the pressures
that were on that many thought the Drew
Pearson is the very close friend of the
poopers had a nationally syndicated
column and wrote basically designed to
try and kill the rezident that was a
trying part because with my king and in
it Pearson says he is convinced that the
FBI is conducting perhaps the most
painstaking exhausting manhunt ever
before undertaken in the United States
why how he would know is beyond us but
that's clearly what Hoover told him to
say they also I don't have to cook it
here they also have another one they're
very close operatives Jeremiah O'Leary
who was then at the Washington star did
an article Reader's Digest and he went
he went one hand beyond Pearson instead
of straight Shannon in what was missed
in the world so he was now saying this
was the only best race in of the purpose
of this now ever anywhere a whole CNN of
course when Brady was arrested then
there was a spate of the so
congratulatory palms done that same
friendly media operation at this point
once we get
on the things that have been reports I'm
drawing my based on modeling my own
experience and expertise but it
certainly seems clear that media
operations around not only the job but
also on the campaign to demonstrate not
only that you see in stories again by
friends of eight minutes like it most
like the theory that there was a
conspiracy is not true the FBI has
exploded the theory that there was a
conspiracy the even people who had a
risk today they got caught a little bit
because they were planting stories that
happens jersey I mean there was a story
at the very beginning second that dr.
King had been killed by the husband
husband lover now later in time ten
years later so this was affected they
had made up the story you're saying that
he was hired by something else to do
that's a conspiracy so that they hadn't
dropped that story because now mine was
now they're saying they and the same
people here some mentioned that story
and that later on denounced the
generally prevalent here at the murders
he was out one half that he was one of
the people even particularly actually
actually there was no judicial
proceeding stories they wanted to
compulsion to periodically come off
these stories well this is the
continuation of the absolutely never
because rating insisted virtually they
felt help to to continue to plant these
these stories they they went on for a
number of years very intense level of
men offense order to develop a in the
first year after the plea of guilty
Anderson College is supposed to ending
his computer seized maxillary look
Thomas a great was the killer there's
nothing to the conspiracy theory and
when another example of how they see it
was even at the time where they said
jury is told to read the story is that
the prosecution I'm not presenting any
evidence of reply which is very
different from say they didn't present
any evidence that there wasn't a plug
either and yet it looks like something
has been said and done in court showing
a jury feels no no that's not what
happened it wasn't it wasn't discussed
either way
and they there was a store got the need
next week in Washington Post where the
title distorted was reading along still
talks of applause
Richie Kennedy journalistically was
ridiculous because there were millions
upon millions of Americans talking about
there's a plot and it was you know tries
to create the impression that that Jane
James obey was starvation and was the
only person in America but they're gonna
plot that campaign and in fact they then
said well though we really meant was
that he's the only person who's
auditioning positioning such a pot out
of their mouth doesn't and even that
wasn't true because the next day there
was a story at the selected into an
Alton Illinois bank robbery
an investigation which never took
training absolutely the fact that
subsequently it was shown that they
would not suspects in that robbery it
the first thing it means is that the the
reporter is named some things which had
to have been simply fit to him and not
check if you're saying something
happened which in fact very very taste
of journalism proven did happen you are
either doing it on home stretch of this
information which is extremely unlikely
or mere being asked to put a spin on
something that you know is going to keep
nothing out the again I mean I don't
know what happened at Alabama Illinois
but if as I understand this from
testimony it is clear that the railroad
was when I suspect in that case this
story is clearly this information
because it designed to make the Peter
not only that they were suspects in that
case but that they did and to make it
appear that two investigations confirmed
that whereas since we know mostly true
is it possible in your application how
you respond and what is your explanation
for the fact that there has been such
little national media coverage of these
mr. OTT and his evidence in this event
here in this event that program which is
the first problem ever being to produce
evidence on this assassination what this
happened here that money would sir is
not sounding but is in fact totally
silent
almost
Oh as we know silence can be deafening
this information is not only getting
sort of things to repeat or print is
also getting certain things not to
appear I mean that person the first
thing I would see as a little
explanation is the that incredibly
powerful effectiveness information over
over a long period of time that I
mentioned before for thirty years the
official line has been the changed over
eight killed Martin Luther King and he
did all by himself that's 30 years not
not nothing like the short period when
the line was that the Huber's rate the
over limit but for 30 years
James oh they kill dr. King did it all
by himself and when that is imprinted in
the minds of the general public for 30
years if somebody stood up and confessed
he said I did it right it's what I did
here's a movie is 99% of people will
believe them because it just in general
in the mind you just go right to the
movie years of disinformation it's been
impacted on the brains of the public
something to the country yes that's why
I got these brains patterns of thinking
or a physical aspect of the human brain
that's how we develop patterns of
thought how we develop associations in
the venomous still playing is tuned and
even though you might think 30 years is
a long time that almost everybody might
get in trouble it was probably dead
right now that's that's not worse the
people obtain influence people make vast
sums of money through this rock
and those people pass that influence on
to others they pass the money down the
line all that can be at risk for a very
very long time there are there are
documents from the investigation of the
assassination of Abraham Lincoln there's
still classified don't ask me why but
they were originally sealed for a
hundred years and then in 1965 President
Lyndon Johnson said well it's so close
to the Kennedy assassination if people
read the Lincoln documents that might
make them think funny things about
Kennedy so he classified for another 50
years so now that the green children of
anybody around the Lincoln see it was
around that are long dead and these
documents are still so classified and
we're talking today about a case that's
a hundred years more immediate than
Lincoln and the establishment is still
be step thank you very much for joining
us thank you